	The external setting

            The primary setting for any culture. 
            What is the climate? 
            What are the resources for survival? 
            What kinds of clothes and shelter are needed? 
            What sorts of food can be grown, hunted, caught? 
            What kinds of natural phenomenon might influence beliefs? 
            Will the climate only allow survival activities or will there be time for leisure
            developments such as art, philosophy, etc?</para>

   
    History
    
	    The secondary setting for any culture. All human cultures
	    possess some earlier developments in their culture. 
	    
	    Some outside influences have helped to mold a culture into its condition, so, it has
	    its own set of past values, beliefs, and activities.
	    Static and Dynamic Forces
	    
	    Static force provides stability. It allows people to hold to the
	    familiar and put brakes on the forces of change that may be rapid
	    Dynamic force provides change. These are the forces that work
	    toward change.
    
    Interactions with Other Cultures
    
	    Interdependence between groups of people brings change.
	    Conflict between people brings change. 
	    Communication may bring change.
    
    Internal Influences
    
    Economic
    
    Resources, transportation, scarcity, production, distribution, type
    of economy, decision-making, technology, division of labor,
    needs.
    
    Social
    
    Family life, customs, class or caste, roles, decision-making,
    education, leisure activities.
    
    Belief
    
    Religion, myth, ritual.
    
    Political
    
    Decision-making, citizenship, and leadership institutions.
    
    Aesthetic
    
    Art, music, dance, literature, leisure activities
    
    Social Structure
    
    What classes exist?, 
    How is the hierarchy of classes organized?
    Upon what is the stratification of the classes based?
    What are the roles of the men, women, children?
    What is the family structure?
    What social problems exist?
    Who cares for and provides education to the children?
    is there prejudice, persecution, etc.?
    If so, what groups are involved? 
    How are the children socialized?
    Who provides care for the infirmed?
    Who cares for the elderly?
    
    Religion
    
    What are the beliefs of the society concerning life and death?
    What is considered good and what is considered evil?
    Who do they worship?
    Where do they worship?
    Are there any sacrifices?
    What role does religion play in their social lives?
    
    Communication and Education
    
    What languages are spoken?, 
    How is the language recorded?, 
    How are messages and information passed along?, 
    How is history recorded?,
    is the society literate or illiterate?, 
    Who provides education?, 
    Who receives education?, 
    What is the "technology" involved in long distance communication?
    
    Power and Authority
    
    What are the rules? 
    Who made the rules?
    How does society get its rules?
    What is the source of power?
    How is justice dispensed?
    How are criminals apprehended?
    What punishments are used?
    Who are the rulers?
    How are the rulers chosen?
    How is power passed on to the next leaders?
    What groups have the most political power?
    
    Leisure and Recreation
    
    
    In what sports does people participate?, 
    What games are played?, 
    What institutions or organizations provides recreation?
    What type of sports are considered spectator sports?
    What toys does children use?, 
    What other types of participatory recreation exist?
    What other types of spectator recreation exist?
    
    Artistic Expression
    
    
    What are the mediums of the graphic arts?
    What dances do the people do?
    What types of music are there?
    What themes are present in art, music, dance?
    What is the source of these themes?
    
    
    
    
    
</article>
