Monster Designb...


- The first thing you want to start with are the standard traits. These are the 
things your character will notice first. Things like color, size, and shape 
matter but think more along the lines of its similarities to existing animals 
(more on that below) or one memorable trait, such as glowing eyes, enormous 
wings, or a distinct screeching sound.

- You want the beast to have a presence even when it is not visible. For example 
a clicking noise might precede the monster before it attacks or a swarm of bugs 
follows it around so when your character sees the bugs, it knows the monster is 
near. Or it could be that the air gets colder and mistier or the other animals 
in the area go silent. You want to let the reader know that something bad is 
coming, but only with subtle clues to build the tension.

- What real-life animals can it be compared to? When I say this, it doesn’t mean 
that your fantasy creature has to look just like a lion or a bear. Pick and 
choose traits to paint the best picture possible. Does it have the legs of a 
horse and the head of a lizard? Is its body structure skeletal, like an insect, 
or meaty, like a mammal? Also consider its movements/mannerisms in comparison to 
real animals. That way if it’s stalking your character like a cat or lumbering 
like an elephant, the audience knows what to picture.
	
- Think about the beast’s primary means of attack and defense. Sharp teeth 
aren’t your only option; if its mouth is big enough, flat teeth with a strong 
jaw can be just as deadly. Also consider, where the mouth is concerned, if it 
has venom, dripping saliva, bad breath, or a forked tongue. All of these details 
will come out as you’re describing the creature. The mouth isn’t the only method 
of defense either, think about whether or not it has claws or constricting 
tentacles and what sort armor the beast’s skin provides (hair, shell, leathery 
skin etc.)

- Does the monster look as dangerous as it really is? I believe the kids today 
call this ‘fronting’ where something pretends to be what it’s not. Think about 
those fish at the bottom of the ocean that lure other fish into their jaws with 
a misleading tentacle light. Maybe your monster takes on the form of a little 
girl, then asks people along the road to help her walk home. Then BAM! They’re 
monster food. Similarly you could go in the opposite direction and have a 
monster that is huge and horrifying, end up being clumsy and easy to defeat. In 
this case think of lizards that puff up their necks in an attempt to look larger 
and menacing. These are all things you should consider to help make your monster 
more realistic.

- What is the beast’s weakness? Though you may be trying to make your monster 
invincible, it doesn’t always make for good storytelling. If you want your 
protagonist to die, that’s fine, just make them fail to hit the weak spot. 
Horror loves to give the character that last glimmer of hope before snuffing it 
out. But whether you want the beast to die or not, you’ll still need to figure 
out some sort of weakness. Werewolves have silver, Vampires have wooden stakes, 
and I’m pretty sure some monsters are killed by love, but I wouldn’t recommend 
that weakness (unless the beast was once a human and the only person they ever 
loved is their weakness). Your weakness could also be a time frame, such as only 
killing it during a full moon, which can actually help with story pacing and 
progression.

- What does the creature leave behind? This is similar to the first category in 
that it’s something that suggests the creature rather than its physical 
presence. For example, it could leave a lingering smell, footprints, scratch 
marks, corpses, or droppings. You want something left behind for your character 
to find in order to know the beast was there. This could imply the thing is 
following them, or allow them a means to track the creature.

- Once again think about how this thing moves. Like I said above you can make 
comparisons to real animals (walks on all fours, rippling muscles, etc) but also 
consider your options when it comes to non-animal movements. This is a creature 
that doesn’t exist so you want something to set it apart from everything else 
out there. Maybe some of its movements are mechanical (a crab’s claws could 
attack like machine turrets) or fluid like water (as opposed to things that live 
in the water). Think about how quickly it moves and what sort of image this 
creates in the character’s mind. It might ooze out onto the floor like spilled 
syrup or break down a door like a gust of wind. Raw strength and sharp teeth 
aren’t the only reason a creature can be dangerous or feared.

- Where is this creature from? You might think that only your characters need 
back stories, but even that random monster in the forest would benefit from a 
brief history. They could be corrupted humans from the past, guardians of the 
underworld, beasts that crawled up from the ocean. An origin will not only give 
the creature a purpose and a fun story for the main character to learn, but it 
can also lead to further things like its weakness and why it looks the way it 
does (claws were originally meant for digging).

- Figure out a catchy name. You don’t necessarily have to give the creature an 
original name, meaning, you don’t need someone to tell your main character that 
this lion elephant creature is called a Liophant. A lot of times a creatures is 
named and identified by what it does. For example a beast that howls can be 
called a howler, or a beast that steals souls could be a reaper. As the author 
you can use existing words to identify these things. That’s not to say giving it 
an original name is bad, but just don’t think that it is a requirement for a 
good creature. The benefits of having the name, other than it being more 
recognizable to the character and the reader, are that you avoid writing ‘the 
creature’ over and over again and it can help with its back story as well.

- Gross out your reader. At this point we know that the creature is a mishmash 
of other animals. We can picture its lion legs and elephant head or whatever, 
and we’ve accepted that it has horns and bat wings, but until that image in our 
head starts moving and slobbering all over everything, we aren’t going to feel 
it. Think about the real details you would see on a wild, ferocious animal. Snot 
might drip from its nose, blood could be stained on its paws or chunks of its 
flesh might be missing where it got into previous battles. Make the creature 
come alive and don’t be afraid to get into the filthy details. Dirt was caked in 
its fur, bits of flesh hung from its teeth, one of its eyes was missing, leaving 
a soulless black socket that followed the character where ever he ran. That sort 
of stuff.



Giant Pill Bugs for dinner

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giant_isopod

Mississippi catfish gone large
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mekong_giant_catfish

Mississippi sturgeon gone large

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beluga_%28sturgeon%29

Giant Guinea pig

hoberomys pattersoni, a 1,500-pound (680-kilogram) rodent the size of a buffalo, 
roamed South America eight million years ago. Researchers say Phoberomys looked 
more like a giant guinea pig than an oversized house rat. Like the buffalo and 
many dinosaurs, it flourished on a diet of vegetation.

Thenean Islanders creatures

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Indian_Manatee

